# Homework #14
## Connal Boyd
## 11/28/21

___
## Grade
3/3: Great job! I'm glad you were able to get some things running. This is a good example of how even when authors put a solid effort into documentation it can still be hard to reproduce results. Enviroment issues are one of the most common reasons why work can be difficult to reproduce. 
___

### 1.) What is the paper or project you picked? Include a title, a link to the paper and a 1-2 sentence summary of what its about.

I selected the paper *HydroMix v1.0: a new Bayesian mixing framework for attributing uncertain hydrological sources* by Beria et al., 2020. This paper can be found at the following [link](https://gmd.copernicus.org/articles/13/2433/2020/). The article employs a bayesian modeling approach to quantify source water mixing ratio uncertainty. The study also used their model to quantify contributions of snowmelt v. snowfall to groundwater using isotope tracing.

### 2.) What codes and/or data are associated with this paper? Provide any link to the codes and datasets and a 1-2 sentence summary of what was included with the paper (i.e. was it a github repo? A python package? A database? Where was it stored and how?)

The article includes links to a [github repo](https://github.com/harshberia93/HydroMix/tree/20191007_GMD) that is updated with new information that has been added to the modeling code used in the original paper. The paper also provides a [Zenodo link](https://zenodo.org/record/3475429#.YaP0NdDMJEY) to the version of the repo that existed at the time the paper was published. There are datasets included in the archived repo that include rainfall isotope data as well as hypsometric curve data.

### 3.) Summarize your experience trying to understand the repo: Was their readme helpful? How was their organization? What about documentation within the code itself?

I found their repo easy to follow and their readme helpful. They referenced specific sections of their paper in their readme which helped me to correlate their python files to the different sections of their work. I thought their code was pretty well commented and easy to follow.

### 4.) Summarize your experience trying to work with their repo: What happened when you tried to run it? Where you successful? Why or why not?

Some of the code ran well, with only minor adjustments. Other code files need much deeper bug fixes that I cannot figure out to get them to run. The code files are intended to generate csv files that will hold the data output by the model. However, one of the main issues I ran into is that since there were small bugs in the code, I was not able to run the code sufficiently to create these files. Yet, the repo is set up in such a way that the output files generated by the modeling code are already included in the repo. This allowed for several of the other code files to still run even though other code files were broken. As a result, I was still able to generate a few plots consistent with the figures shown in the published paper.

### 5.) Summarize your experience working with the data associated with this research. Could you access the data? Where was it? Did it have a DOI? What format was it in?

The data was very easily accessible. The authors included two small excel sheets in the repo I downloaded, so accessing data for this repo was extremely simple.

### 6.) Did this experience teach you anything about your own repo or projects? What suggestions would you give to the authors for how they could do better next time?

I certainly learned a lot about how difficult it can be to provide instruction to others down the line about how to access data and utilize code. I really appreciated how these authors provided well commented code and had a pretty easy to follow readme. One thing I also liked about the way these authors shared their data, is that in their Zenodo downloadable data there is a MacOS version of their work as well as their Windows version. I appreciate this type of attention to detail in their data sharing. Initially I spent a long time trying to get a repo for a different paper to work that I ultimately could not figure out because it required setting up a new python environment and utilized a package they had created themselves. Both that repo and Beria et al.'s repo would have benefitted from more specific instructions on the order in which to run files or download things to be able to reproduce the results of the paper. I think having an even more explicit readme would help. It did teach me to be more aware about what information I will need to share with others (or myself later on) when coming back to a project after some time away. 
